# Backend for frontend (BFF) with Graphql
Date: 2022-06-23

## Status
Accepted 

## Context
Following the [API standard decision](./002.adr-api-standard.md), the Spotlight apps would require to consume graphql APIs, but external consumer services would prefer Rest APIs to integrate with the platform. It is an infrastructure overhead for all the microservices to supports both the standards initially. BFF is a service catered for frontend needs and can follow a different API standard (Graphql) from the rest of the system. 

<b>Advantages of BFF pattern with Graphql</b>

* Solves problems of over fetching and under fetching. 
* Solve functional requirements which are different for UI from the backend.
* The frontend client would only need to hit a single service to fetch aggregated data from multiple services, thus reducing the overall network overhead.
* If the frontend uses typescript, this service can be managed by the frontend developers. This gives them greater flexibility to complete the UI sooner without having to rely on the delivery of the underlying application APIs.

## Decision
Have a BFF service with Graphql API standard to make use of the above advantages.

## Tradeoffs - Mitigation Strategies

* **Single point of failure** : If BFF is not available the UI apps will not function.
    * Mitigation: Deploy BFF in multiple availability zones.
* **Extra service** : This will be an additional service to monitor and another opportunity for bugs in the system. 
* **Latency** : Increased latency due to an extra hop to fetch simple (non-aggregated) data.
  * Mitigation: Deploy BFF in same cluster as other microservices and communicate to them within the cluster. This will add very little round trip time. Also, BFF pattern is most effective when a page / widget on the app needs aggregated data from multiple services. 

## References
https://www.infoq.com/presentations/graphql-bff/
https://www.mobilelive.ca/blog/why-backend-for-frontend-application-architecture#:~:text=Backend%20For%20Frontend%20(BFF)%20architecture,%2C%20and%20native%2Dmobile%20apps.
